## Resumo

In OFDM-based optical networks, multiple subcarriers can be allocated to accommodate various size of traffic demands. By using the multi-carrier modulation technique, subcarriers for the same node-pair can be overlapping in the spectrum domain. Compared to the traditional wavelength routed networks (WRNs), the OFDM-based Spectrum-sliced Elastic Optical Path (SLICE) network has higher spectrum efficiency due to its finer granularity and frequency-resource saving. In this work, for the first time, we comprehensively study the routing and spectrum allocation (RSA) problem in the SLICE network. After proving the NP-hardness of the static RSA problem, we formulate the RSA problem using the Integer Linear Programming (ILP) formulations to optimally minimize the maximum number of sub-carriers required on any fiber of a SLICE network. We then analyze the lower/upper bounds for the sub-carrier number in a network with general or specific topology. We also propose two efficient algorithms, namely, balanced load spectrum allocation (BLSA) algorithm and shortest path with maximum spectrum reuse (SPSR) algorithm to minimize the required sub-carrier number in a SLICE network. The results show that the proposed algorithms can match the analysis and approximate the optimal solutions using the ILP model.


## Anotações

O artigo propõe dois algoritmos, um para balanceamento de carga (BLSA) e um para utilização de caminhos mínimos com o maximo de reutilização do espectro (SPSR) que minimiza a pedido do numero de subportadoras em redes SLICE. "Traditional WDM networks adopt a fixed-size frequency allocation per wavelength, which is the smallest granularity to accommodate the traffic demands... " Os autores descrevem o problema RWA de redes WDM, comentando a baixa flexibilidade na alocação do espectro que essas redes tem, em seguida fala de redes SLICE que como um proposta recente para otimiza a alocação do espectro. "One prominent characteristic of the SLICE network is the
signal modulation technique of Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), which can overcome the impairments due to the chromatic dispersion (CD) and polarization mode dispersion (PMD) in high-capacity long-haul fiber transmission." 
"SLICE networks can bring multiple benefits: (i) OFDM enables the expansion and contraction of the sub-carriers along an optical path, thus elastic bandwidth sharing can be achieved by adjusting the spectral bandwidth based on various users’ time-dependent complementary demands. (ii) It can facilitate energy efficient network operation. For example, the transponders can partially shut down the electronic drivers by reducing the number of OFDM sub-carriers to save energy. (iii) It can provide the capability of bandwidth-squeezed restoration by squeezing the bandwidth of the failed working optical path to ensure the minimum connectivity and transit through an alternative path, even though the alternative path may not have equivalent bandwidth as the original path. (iv) It can alleviate the reachability and generator placement issues in heterogeneous WDM networks...In SLICE networks, a spectrum path is an all-optical trail established between the source and sink nodes by using one or multiple consecutive sub-carriers. The fundamental problem in the SLICE network is to route and allocate spectrum resources (or set up spectrum paths) to accommodate the traffic demands, which is defined as the routing and spectrum allocation (RSA) problem ... In the SLICE network, the finer granularity and elastic right-size bandwidth allocation is achieved with the aid of optical orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM)...To form the spectrum path for the traffic demand using multiple sub-carriers, the SLICE network needs to deploy bandwidth-variable (BV) transponders at the network edge and bandwidth-variable WXCs in the network core, which can be built based on the continuous bandwidthvariable wavelength-selective switch (WSS)... **Objective of the RSA problem -- Since more sub-carriers on a fiber imply more cost on the fiber, power consumption and corresponding switching equipments, the objective in this study is to minimize the maximum sub-carrier index among all the fibers, which is shown in Eq. (1). Meanwhile, we need Eq. (2) to obtain the maximum index of the sub-carriers among all the fiber links..." "**Heuristic Algorithms for the RSA  problem --
The proposed ILP model is tractable when the problem size (e.g., network topology, traffic demands) is small. For the large scale problem, we have to rely on heuristic algorithms to obtain a practical solution within reasonable time... " O autor anteriormente faz a prova matemática anteriormente que o problema do RSA é NP-hard, em seguida descreve os algoritmos propostos. O autor propõe um modelo heuristico a fim de dimininuir ao máximo o uso do espectro para redes grandes e redes pequenas utiliza ILP. "** Heuristic Algorithms in a Large Network -- In this section, we show how heuristic algorithms behave on a larger network (where the ILP model is intractable and the analysis becomes computational intensive). The performance of the heuristic algorithms under uniform and non-uniform traffic demands is presented below...This is due to  the longer routing paths and more overlapping from the load balance routing. In general, we can conclude that balanced routing results in smaller M S when compared to the shortest path routing. However, our other results show that the total sub-carriers consumed by BLSA is larger than that of SPSR due to the similar reasons described above... " 
