## Resumo

"We describe spectrum-efficient and scalable optical transport network architecture called spectrum-sliced “elastic optical path” network (SLICE). The architecture enables sub-wavelength, super-wavelength, and distance-adaptive spectrum allocation in a highly spectrum-efficient manner. "


## Anotações

"...The aim of SLICE is to address the issues of the existing networks. SLICE provides spectrum-efficient and scalable transport of 100 Gb/s services and beyond through the introduction of flexible granular grooming in the optical frequency domain. The concept of SLICE is to allocate appropriately sized optical bandwidth to an end- to-end optical path. The allocation is performed according to the traffic volume, user request or the path distance in a highly spectrum-efficient and scalable manner. In SLICE, the necessary spectral resources on a given route are “sliced off” and allocated to the end-to- end optical path. Unlike the “rigid” bandwidth of the conventional optical path, an optical path in SLICE “expands and contracts” according to the traffic volume and user request. SLICE introduces unique features such as bitrate-adaptive spectrum resource allocation (Fig. 1) and DA spectrum resource allocation (Fig.2) ... SLICE also enables the creation of a super-
wavelength optical path in the optical domain, thus ensuring high utilization of spectral resources (Fig. 1 (b)). This unique feature, layer one (L1) aggregation, can be realized by the OFDM SLICE transponders. Recently, we reported 1 Tb/s optical link aggregation experiment...Only the necessary minimum spectral resource is adaptively allocated to an optical path." Figura 2 com representação de DA-SLICE e wavelength routed optical network. 