## Resumo

Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is a multi-carrier modulation technology that transmits a high-speed data stream using multiple spectrally overlapped lower-speed subcarriers. Optical OFDM (O-OFDM) technology is a promising candidate for future high-speed optical transmission. Based on O-OFDM, a novel elastic optical network architecture with immense flexibility and scalability in spectrum allocation and data rate accommodation can be built to support diverse services and the rapid growth of Internet traffic. This architecture can provide various services directly at the optical layer in a spectrum-efficient way through bandwidth-elastic optical paths. However, carrying various data rate services using a single type of bandwidth-variable transponder might not be cost-efficient. Electrical traffic grooming is a traditional approach for sub-wavelength service accommodation in wavelength division multiplexing networks. However, it places additional electrical switching and optical-electrical-optical conversion requirements on the network, which may lead to higher cost and energy consumption. In contrast, grooming traffic optically is an attractive option for elastic optical networks. In this paper, we propose a novel optical grooming approach to aggregate and distribute traffic directly at the optical layer in OFDM-based elastic optical networks. We study routing and spectrum allocation algorithms of optical grooming to show the benefits of this approach. Our results demonstrate that significant transmitter and spectrum savings can be achieved by the optical grooming versus the non-grooming scenario, and a trade-off between optimizing the number of transmitters and optimizing spectrum usage should be considered during network planning.


## Anotações

"To address these problems, it is desirable to groom multiple sub-wavelength services into a BV-transponder and switch them together as a whole. Similarly to traditional WDM networks, one possible way to implement traffic grooming in elastic optical networks is to employ electrical subcarrier multiplexing and switching [7]. However, electrical grooming adds additional optical–electrical–optical (OEO) conversions and electrical subcarrier switching requirements at intermediate nodes, which result in higher cost and energy consumption [8]. These issues may become more significant when higher-speed transmission systems are deployed..."IMPORTANTE: tabela com comparação entre WDM e EONs... In [10,11] it was proposed that point-to-multipoint connections be provided using a single type of multi-flow, multi-rate, and multi-reach transmitter (sliceable transmitter), where each sub-wavelength service inside the transmitter is supported by a different wavelength. The saving of router interfaces compared with the traditional WDM optical bypass approach in an IP traffic offloading scenario was also demonstrated. These papers have shown the potential of optical grooming in elastic optical networks...With the spectrum flexibility provided by the BV-OXC, optical signals with arbitrary spectrum bandwidth can be switched in elastic optical networks [1]. This provides the possibility to groom services and switch them all optically. The basic idea of optical grooming is to group multiple sub-wavelength optical paths into one BV-transmitter and switch them as a whole. We refer to this group of optical paths as an optical tunnel...As shown in Fig. 2, when a sub-wavelength optical path needs to be separated from the optical tunnel at an intermediate node, the original optical tunnel is split into multiple tunnels. Guard bands should be added besides the separated optical tunnels, so that they can be switched at subsequent BV-OXCs..." Figura 2 representa o traffic grooming. "By employing optical grooming, the total number of transmitters can be reduced, and spectrum resources can be saved because of the eliminated guard bands between the groomed sub-wavelength optical paths. Note that the optical grooming approach saves only transmitters, not receivers, because traffic from different source nodes needs to be received   separately...BV-receivers should be able to receive a subset of continuous subcarriers (which correspond to one or multiple sub-wavelength services) in an optical tunnel. Again, based on the orthogonality among subcarriers, a subset of the OFDM spectrum can be recovered without interference from neighboring subcarriers..." O autor apresenta formulação ILP considerando traffic grooming para EONs. ***Grooming constraints: Sub-wavelength service paths originating from the same source node can be groomed together. If two paths are
groomed together, when their routes are separated after some intermediate node, their consecutive routes should not have any common link, in order to avoid interference brought in by different routes. (Fig 4 com exemplo onde não utiliza groomed). Algoritmo : The LSG (least spectrum grooming) algorithm minimizes the total spectrum usage by grooming the optical paths that share the longest common route from the source node. This algorithm aims to maximize spectrum gain by the reduced guard bands."Minimum Transmitter Grooming (MTG) Algorithm:
The MTG algorithm aims to minimize the number of transmitters. It is mostly similar to LSG in terms of algorithmic steps. The difference is that when searching for possible placement of a tunnel, the MTG algorithm uses maximum spectrum capacity of a tunnel (U) instead of the real capacity of a service (i.e., it reserves the spectrum for grooming) and allows grooming of paths whose weight (spectrum gain)
H sd 0 j ∑ 0..." CONCLUSÃO:" We believe that optical grooming has great potential in realizing significant cost savings for future OFDM-based elastic optical networks. Our future work is to compare optical grooming and electrical grooming from cost and energy perspectives."




