## Resumo

"In this article, we address the problem of static routing and spectrum allocation (RSA) in an elastic optical network
(EON) with dedicated path protection (DPP) consideration. We formulate RSA-DPP as an Integer Linear Programming (ILP)
problem. Since RSA is a difficult problem, we propose an Adaptive  Frequency Assignment with Dedicated Path Protection (AFA-
DPP) heuristic algorithm to provide near-optimal solutions to   the problem. We investigate the efficiency of AFA-DPP for a set
of network scenarios. Evaluation results show that the proposed  algorithm outperforms other reference algorithms.
"


## Anotações

" We investigate the efficiency of AFA-DPP for a set of network scenarios. Evaluation results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms other reference algorithms..."In a flexgrid-based EON the optical frequency spectrum is divided into narrow frequency slices [3]. The optical path (lightpath) is determined by its routing path and a channel, which consists of a flexibly assigned subset of slices. Elastic spectrum allocation in EON differs with channel assignment in fixed-grid wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) networks in that the channel width is not rigidly defined but it can be tailored to the actual width of the transmitted signal. Due to this difference, ordinary Routing and Wavelength Assignment (RWA) algorithms are not appropriate for EON. "EON bring new capabilities in the context of network survivability when comparing with fixed (rate-specific) technologies. Firstly, the reconfiguration ability of BV-T strongly reduces the required spare resources in terms of opto-electronic interfaces [18], [19]. It is achieved thanks to the share of the required spare interfaces for any connection independently of its data-rate. Secondly, elastic spectrum allocation enables highly survivable restoration schemes where the backup path bandwidth can be reduced whenever there is not enough resources [20]. Thus, the number of surviving paths may be increased in the network...Find a primary lightpath and a backup lightpath over the EON for every transported demand subject to constraints: 1) spectrum contiguity: for each demand, the slices should be allocated each next to the other (i.e., adjacent) in S, 2) spectrum continuity: for each demand, the subset of allocated slices should be the same for each link on the selected routing path, 3) slice capacity: a slice in a link can be allocated to one demand at most, 4) same channel (applies only for RSA/DPP/SC): for each demand, the primary and backup lightpath should have allocated the same subset of slices, and with the objective to minimize the width of spectrum (denoted as Φ) required in the network, similarly as in [7], [8], and [9]." O algoritmo proposto foca em caminho de proteção para redes ópticas flexíveis.