## Resumo

In order to mitigate the mismatch of granularities between fixed grid and client traffic demand, the elastic optical network (EON) was proposed by using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM). Bandwidth variable (BV)-transponders consume more fixed power compared with ordinary ones, which will lead to a power-thirsty EON if we do not take any effective measures. Thus the green grooming was proposed for EONs. However, an adaptive multilevel modulation was neglected in the works focusing on green grooming. In this paper, we design a modulation adaptive grooming with guaranteeing transmission performances in green EONs. The simulation results demonstrate that the adaptive multilevel modulation plays a more important role on saving spectrum compared with improving power efficiency for the green grooming in EONs.


## Anotações
"But in EONs, a guardband (GB) occupies the spectrum of the fiber link co-occupied by two adjacent lightpaths, and bandwidth variable (BV)-transponders consume more fixed power compared with ordinary ones...Currently, the research on dynamic green grooming with the adaptive multilevel modulation is seldom mentioned. Here, dynamic means that the client data arrived and then leave the EON. Thus in the next section, we integrate GGA with DASRA, i.e., (GGA +DASRA), by copying the double-layered grooming graph. The detail construction of this double-layered graph can be found in our preliminary work [4]. Through the simple operations of adding and removing graph edges, we allocate/release spectral resources seamlessly along with the dynamics of client data...The AS of GGA +DASRA+MS is the lowest. Moreover, whether MS or MP grooming policy, the AS of our GGA+DASRA is very lower than that of traditional RSA or GGA. This is because that under a good channel condition, utilizing a high modulation level saves more spectral resources, which is the advantage of the adaptive multilevel modulation used in GGA+DASRA method. Thus we can say that the adaptive multilevel modulation plays a more important role in saving spectrum compared with improving power efficiency for the green grooming in EONs...  "
