## Resumo

In this paper we present a novel approach to assess the impact of new and existing services on traffic volume in current and future backbone networks. Several proposals to model traffic load in access- and backbone networks exist in the literature. These proposals consider current Internet traffic like http, smtp, ftp, and Peer to Peer (P2P).We expect, however, that there will be a change in traffic load for future networks caused by services like IP Television (IPTV), Video on Demand (VoD), and Virtual Private Networks (VPN). Additionally, population-based models may no longer be applicable due to the widespread of service-providers and hierarchical routing through network peering points. Therefore, it is important to reassess future traffic volumes and traffic patterns and to identify those services that have the most impact on the networks. We model todayÂ¿s traffic volume of each of the described services and estimate future traffic volumes taking peering points into account. To illustrate the different traffic flows and to characterize the traffic distribution we apply our results to a Germany reference network.


## Anotações

"O autor apresenta uma nova proposta para avaliar o novo impacto e serviços no volume de trafego  na atualidade e em redes de backbone futuras. Inicialmente o autor fala do crescimento da largura de banda e a necessidade do crescimento das redes de backbone de aproximadamente 40% por ano. O autor comenta as causas/motivos desse crescimento ter ocorrido de forma brusca. ""Thus the chance to substantially improve the cost situation of operators is also depending on the availability of traffic models for backbone networks that take into account the new service developments and that are able to predict their future bandwidth requirements"". ""Reference [1] analyzes P2P traffic characteristics and
shows that although the majority of the shared files have the size of typical song files, most of the traffic is generated by movie downloads. The results in this paper conclude that 20% of the files account for more then 80% of the downloads"" . ""To calculate the future (2010) traffic volume, we assume that there are 5000 on-demand titles available, 12 GB to 20 GB each..."".""In order to analyze the traffic pattern of video sharing websites, a representative case study is conducted focusing on the website YouTube. YouTube is the leading
net video download site in the US, with 47.7% of the market share of visits to on-line video sites [16]."". ""By comparing the different graphs, it is shown that the traffic demand between nodes is quasisymmetric.The mean relative deviation of a demand pair (m,n) and (n,m) from their average is only 14%. The services that are dominating in terms of traffic are P2P and user-generated content, which is included in the CDN graph."""
