## Resumo

"Orthogonal
frequency-division
multiplexing
(OFDM) is a modulation technology that has been widely
adopted in many new and emerging broadband wireless and
wireline communication systems. Due to its capability to transmit
a high-speed data stream using multiple spectral-overlapped
lower-speed subcarriers, OFDM technology offers superior
advantages of high spectrum efficiency, robustness against
inter-carrier and inter-symbol interference, adaptability to
server channel conditions, etc. In recent years, there have been
intensive studies on optical OFDM (O-OFDM) transmission
Technologies, and it is considered a promising technology for
future ultra-high-speed optical transmission. Based on O-OFDM
technology, a novel elastic optical network architecture with
immense flexibility and scalability in spectrum allocation and
data rate accommodation could be built to support diverse
services and the rapid growth of Internet traffic in the future. In
this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on OFDM-based
elastic optical network technologies, including basic principles
of OFDM, O-OFDM technologies, the architectures of OFDM-
based elastic core optical networks, and related key enabling
technologies. The main advantages and issues of OFDM-based
elastic core optical networks that are under research are also
discussed.
"


## Anotações


A técnologia de modulação OFDM vem sendo largamente adotada (Abstract). Devido a capacidade de transmissão do fluxo de dados ser de alta velocidade usando usando multiplos spectral-overlapped lower-speed subcarriers.  “Due to its capability to transmit a high-speed data stream using multiple spectral-overlapped lower-speed subcarriers, OFDM technology offers superior advantages of high spectrum efficiency, robustness against inter-carrier and inter-symbol interference, adaptability to server channel conditions, etc.” “IN RECENT years, Internet traffic in the core network has been doubling almost every two years, and predictions indicate that it will continue to exhibit exponential growth due to emerging applications such as high-definition and real-time video communications” “On the other hand, emerging Internet applications such as Internet Protocol television (IPTV), video on demand, and cloud and grid computing applications demonstrate unpredictable changes in bandwidth and geographical traffic patterns...” “Recently, OFDM (Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing) has been considered a promising candidate for future high-speed optical transmission technology. OFDM is a multicarrier transmission technology that transmits a high-speed data stream by splitting it into multiple parallel low-speed data channels. OFDM first emerged as a leading physicallayer technology in wireless communications, as it provides an effective solution to inter-symbol interference (ISI) caused by the delay spread of wireless channels.” DEFINE: crosstalk = unwanted transfer of signals between communication channels. “OFDM is a special class of the multi-carrier modulation (MCM) scheme that transmits a high-speed data stream by dividing it into a number of orthogonal channels, referred to as subcarriers, each carrying a relatively-low data rate [3]. Compared to WDM systems, where a fixed channel spacing between the wavelengths is usually needed to eliminate crosstalk, OFDM allows the spectrum of individual subcarriers to overlap because of its orthogonality...” A Figura 2a representa: o ponto de pico da subportadora é o ponto inicial(zero) de outra subportadora. “In the time domain, the OFDM signal is a synthesis of multiple subcarriers’ waveforms, and consists of a continuous stream of OFDM symbols that have a regular symbol period, as shown in Fig. 2(b)” “A generic building block diagram of an OFDM system is shown in Fig. 3. At the transmitter end, the input serial data stream is first converted into many parallel data streams through a serial-to-parallel (S/P) converter, each mapped onto corresponding information symbols for the subcarriers within one OFDM symbol.”Descrição da tecnologia OFDM - ***Intervalo de guarda e prefixo ciclico --  “One of the enabling techniques for OFDM is the insertion of a guard interval (GI) and cyclic prefix (CP) [9]. In optics, the phase velocity of an optical pulse depends on its frequency. Different frequency components of an optical pulse travel with different speeds, so the optical pulse is spread out after transmission (i.e., delay spread). Because of this dispersion phenomenon, an OFDM symbol with a large delay spread after a long-distance transmission may cross its symbol boundary, leading to interference with its neighboring OFDM symbol, which is referred to as inter-symbol interference (ISI). Furthermore, because OFDM symbols of different subcarriers are not aligned due to the delay spread, the critical orthogonality condition for the subcarriers will be lost, resulting in an intercarrier interference (ICI) penalty” ***Estimando canal -- Similar to single-carrier modulation, time- and frequencyvarying channels affect the performance of OFDM systems. The effect of the channel on the transmitted signal needs to be estimated to recover the transmitted information. Many techniques have been proposed for estimating and adjusting both timing and frequency variation in OFDM systems [11]. The channel-state information can be estimated using nonblind channel estimation or blind channel estimation. Blind channel estimation uses the intrinsic characteristics of the modulated signal, which is independent of the transmitted data, to estimate the channel state. This scheme requires careful design of the channel-estimation algorithm such that the system converges under all conditions. Compared to blind channel estimation, non-blind channel estimation is more straightforward, but introduces additional overhead. *** Adaptando enlaces – Link adaption is a widely-used technique to increase thev spectral efficiency of broadband wireless data networks and digital subscriber lines. Link adaption exploits the frequencyselective nature of wideband channels. The basic idea is to adjust transmission parameters for each subcarrier, such as modulation and coding levels, according to certain channel conditions, to maximize the transmission data rate or minimize the transmission power...Link adaption is performed on a subcarrier basis, and is normally assisted by control signaling. Channel estimation is adopted to acquire the link condition, and subcarriers can be put on or off based on the link condition to guarantee communication. ***Vantagens e desvantagens de OFDM – O autor cita cinco vantagens no uso de OFDM – 1º OFDM transmits a high-speed data stream by dividing it into multiple low-data-rate subcarriers, thereby increasing the symbol duration and reducing the intersymbol interference. The intrinsic resilience to ISI makes OFDM a good candidate for future high-speed communication systems. 2º OFDM enables smooth upgrading from low-speed to high-speed transmission by simply augmenting the subcarriers and spectrum, without major changes in system design. Therefore, it is highly scalable for migration to the ever-increasing data rate in the future. 3º High spectrum efficiency can be achieved by OFDM with overlapped subcarrier arrangement, so the system capacity can be greatly increased. 4º The link-adaption capability of OFDM provides even higher spectrum efficiency, as distance and channel condition-adaptive modulation (bit per symbol adjustment) is employed. 5º  Energy-efficient operation to reduce power consumption can be implemented by an OFDM system through adaptive modulation and dynamically switching on/off specific subcarriers according to the channel condition and customer bandwidth requirement (which will be described in Section IV-D6).. DESVANTAGENS: Besides its many advantages, OFDM has some disadvantages. One of its major challenges is the high peak-toaverage power ratio (PAPR) caused by the symbol synthesis ofmultiple parallel subcarriers. This means that the transmitter and receiver components must have a wide dynamic range, such that the high PAPR signal will not be distorted. Another problem is that OFDM requires strict orthogonality between subcarriers, and thus is more sensitive to the frequency and phase noise that may interfere with its orthogonality. These problems bring difficulties in system design, and are consequently a topic of intensive research. O autor apresenta uma figura com os tipos de tecnologiasO- OFDM existentes,  O-OFDM são utilizadas em redes elásticas (In this paper, we describe optical OFDM schemes using two dimensions: signal synthesis mechanism (electrical and optical) and signal detection mechanism (direct detection and coherent detection) ).  *** O-OFDM Signal Synthesis Types – ) Optical Approach -  the optical approach, an optical OFDM signal is directly generated in the optical domain through modulation of multiple optical subcarriers, without the electrical IFFT processing... - In the all-optical OFDM scheme [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41], the transmitter generates multiple optical subcarriers from a continuous-wave light source. Each optical subcarrier is then individually modulated, and finally coupled to create an optical OFDM signal, … *** O-OFDM Signal Detection Types – 1) Direct Detection Direct-detection optical OFDM is realized by sending the optical carrier along with the OFDM baseband so that direct detection with a single photodiode can be used at the receiver to convert the optical field back into the electrical domain.  2) Coherent Detection (CO-OFDM) Coherent detection, also referred to as coherent demodulation, is a technique of phase locking to the carrier wave to improve detection. The concept of CO-OFDM was originally proposed in [14]... In this approach, a local phase reference or oscillator is mixed with the incoming signal. In this way, the optical analog signals contain all the amplitude, phase, and polarization information before they are received by the photo-detectors and converted into digital streams. Subsequently, the data is recovered by means of DSP where the functions of clock recovery, equalization, carrier phase estimation, and recovery are performed. When compared to DDO-OFDM, CO-OFDM improves performance in receiver sensitivity, spectral efficiency, and robustness against polarization dispersion [14] [44], but it requires higher complexity in transceiver design. The superior performance of CO-OFDM makes it an excellent candidate for long-haul transmission systems, whereas DDO-OFDM is more suitable for cost-effective short-reach applications. *** MIMO O-OFDM – In wireless communication systems, the term MIMO (Multiple-Input Multiple-Output) is used to describe a range of systems with multiple transmitting and/or receiving antennas.Depending on the relationship between the signals transmitted from different antennas, MIMO schemes can be used to either increase the overall capacity of the system, or to reduce the probability of outage. Because wireless channels usually introduce significant multi-path dispersion, MIMO is often combined with OFDM.***  Modulation Formats and Adaptive Modulation –  To support high-speed transmission [65], advanced modulation technologies are adopted in O-OFDM system to reduce the transmitted symbol rate and achieve higher spectrum efficiency. Multi-level optical modulation, which can encode m = log2M data bits on M symbols, is an emerging technology for optical high-speed transmission, as the transmission can be accomplished at a symbol rate which is reduced by m compared with the data rate. It allows upgrading to higher data rates under the limits of current high-speed electronics and digital signal processing. On the other hand, with a given data rate, the lower symbol rate supported by multilevel modulation will lead to a drastic reduction of spectrum width. Below, some multi-level modulation formats that are frequently adopted in O-OFDM system are described. ****OFDM-BASED ELASTIC CORE OPTICAL NETWORK – Due to the rapid growth of broadband Internet services and applications such as IPTV, video on demand, and cloud computing, it is expected that diverse bandwidth demands will emerge in future optical networks, with speeds ranging from Gb/s up to Tb/s. Moreover, the temporal as well as  the geographical patterns of future Internet traffic will change dynamically. Inicialmente é apresentdo os problemas que a tecnologia WDM tem. Sequencialmente são apresentados 3 modelos que propõe solucionar os problemas de WDM, redes SLICE, FWDM , Data-Rate Elastic Optical Network. The benefits of this OFDM-based elastic optical network architecture are as follows. 1) Supports flexible granularity service aggregation, enabling sub-wavelength, super-wavelength, and multiplerate data traffic accommodation, e.g., Gb/s to Tb/s. 2) Provides high spectrum efficiency through flexible spectrum allocation according to the transmitted data rate. It has been verified that the spectrum utilization of the elastic optical network improves by 5–95% compared to a fixed-grid WDM network, although the precise spectrum utilization improvement depends on the network topology and traffic pattern [74]. 3) Supports reach-adaptable line rate, as well as dynamic bandwidth expansion and contraction, through adjusting the number of subcarriers and modulation formats. 4) Supports energy-efficient operations to save power consumption by turning off some of the OFDM subcarriers when there is not enough traffic for transmission. 5) Enables optical network virtualization with the virtual link supported by OFDM subcarriers. As the OFDM-based elastic optical network offers finer bandwidth granularity than WDM and has a coarser granularity than optical packet switching (OPS), it is considered as a middle-term alternative to the as-of-yet immature OPS technology [6].  O autor apresenta uma tablea com referencias para artigos que tratam a nivel dde nó e a nivel de rede.  As imagens 13 e 14 representam conceitos de bandwidth. “The guard band size depends on the number of filters (WXC nodes) to cascade, and the filtering characteristics of the WSS. The trade-off between the filter shape and the guard bandwidth was numerically analyzed in [95]. Results show that, for the case of transmission over 10 cascaded filtering stages with second-order Gaussian shape, the optimum guard band for OFDM channels with 10 Gb/s subcarriers is 30 GHz”Quando se fala a nivel de rede o autor trás o problema do RSA, a suadiferença em relação ao RWA das redes WDM, … Due to the non-uniform spectrum usage, some spectrum utilization penalty may exist, leaving fragmented spectrum in OFDM links that is difficult to use. Therefore, spectrum allocation policies to minimize fragmentation hav been proposed [104], and spectrum defragmentation algorithms to reconfigure the network have been studied [100].
