## Resumo

This study investigates the survivable traffic grooming problem for elastic optical networks with flexible spectrum grid employing new transmission technologies. In such networks, instead of following the traditional fixed ITU-T wavelength grid, optical transponders are capable of properly tuning their rates, and consequently their spectrum occupation, by introducing the fine-granular spectrum unit, called a frequency slot. The number of contiguous frequency slots allocated to an optical path (i.e., lightpath) is adjusted to the current network flow. In this study, we propose a novel shared protection specific to elastic networks, namely, elastic separate-protection-at-connection (ESPAC). It not only provides traditional backup sharing, but also offers a new opportunity of spectrum sharing enabled by the elasticity of the transponders: 1) if the working paths of two connections are link disjoint physically, and 2) if their backup paths traverse two lightpaths which are adjacent on a fiber link, then the two backup lightpaths can share spectrum. The new opportunity of spectrum sharing is realized by using First-Fit to assign working traffic and Last-Fit to assign backup traffic, and allowing spectrum overlap between adjacent backup wavelengths. The elasticity of the transponder enables the expansion and contraction of the lightpaths, thus when a single failure occurs in the network, lightpaths carrying backup flows can be tuned to appropriate rates in such a way that the overlap spectrum is used by only one of the adjacent lightpaths. The results show ESPAC is very spectrum efficient in elastic network setting.


## Anotações

