## Resumo

Spectrum elastic optical networks support flexible central frequency and spectrum assignment for lightpaths. In this paper, we investigate energy-efficient dynamic provisioning for such networks. When provisioning a connection, the routing problems in both electrical layer (routing over multiple lightpaths) and optical layer (routing over multiple fibers) have to be addressed. Also, the control plane has to determine the optical-layer spectrum assignment considering the spectrum-continuity constraint as well as the bandwidth variability of transponders. We adopt a novel auxiliary graph based on which a new dynamic provisioning policy called Time-Aware Provisioning with Bandwidth Reservation (TAP-BR) is proposed. TAP-BR incorporates two important factors to facilitate energy-efficient provisioning: time awareness and bandwidth reservation. We compare TAP-BR with previously-proposed dynamic provisioning policies and show that TAP-BR can save significant amount of energy and make efficient use of spectrum resources.


## Anotações
"...The frequency gap between two adjacent channels could be relatively large, if the bandwidth provisioned on them are low, and no traffic can be transmitted using the large unused frequency gap. As a result, a large portion of spectrum in a fiber may be wasted...Typically, traffic grooming requires electrical multiplexing and Optical-to-Electrical-to Optical (OEO) conversions, which induce much energy consumption.In [5], the authors introduced energy-efficient, time-aware traffic grooming, which is very crucial in energy saving as energy consumption is the product of power and time." CONTRIBUIÇÃO DO ARTIGO: "In this paper, we investigate energy-efficient dynamic provisioning for spectrum elastic optical networks. Our contributions are: 1) an auxiliary graph to solve the electrical-layer routing problem; 2) reserving certain amount of bandwidth for each lightpath to efficiently use transponders’ transmission capabilities; 3) considering time information and adjusting the weights of the edges in the auxiliary graph to achieve the most energy-efficient electrical-layer routing. The numerical results show that our proposed scheme can save significant energy and make efficient use of spectrum resources"..."Because optical components (e.g., EDFAs, optical switches) consume much less power compared to electrical ones [6] [7], the main energy consuming components are: ports of core IP routers which are responsible for electronic switching and EO/OE conversions; and bandwidth-variable transponders...Note that the bandwidth of each lightpath is variable in spectrum elastic optical networks. How to utilize this bandwidth variability and transmission capabilities of transponders while assigning spectrum to each lightpath is very important in achieving energy-efficient provisioning " Apresenta o algoritmo de provisionamento dinamico (DPA) geralmente usado. Autor cita politicas de provisionamento usadas: Non-grooming, MinLPs e MinHops. O melhor desempenho foi obtido na seguinte ordem: MinLPs, MinHops e Non-grooming."...However, as we observe in Fig. 7, TAP-BR achieves similar
blocking performance as MinLPs which is much better than NonGrooming and MinHops. This is because grooming can save the spectrums used by filter guard bands between adjacent channels[12]."

