## Resumo

Optical networks have been shown to be the most viable solution for inter-data-center network implementation. Furthermore, elastic optical networks incorporating virtualization technology can significantly introduce agile delivery of cloud services. In this paper, we present resilient design of an inter-data-center network over an elastic optical network backbone aiming at minimum outage probability for the demands submitted to the Cloud and handled in one or more data centers in the network where a data center can have any of the following four availability values; 99.67%, 99.74%, 99.98% and 99.995%. Moreover, employment of optical network as the transport medium introduces the high availability advantage of the optical network components over the lightpaths/light-trees towards data centers. We illustrate the advantages of manycast-based provisioning of the upstream data center requests over anycast-based provisioning and minimum-cost provisioning in terms of outage probability. Furthermore, we show the impact of resilient design of the inter-data-center network on the path delay performance of upstream data center demand.


## Anotações

"A técnologia de modulação OFDM vem sendo largamente adotada (Abstract). Devido a capacidade de transmissão do fluxo de dados ser de alta velocidade usando usando multiplos spectral-overlapped lower-speed subcarriers.  “Due to its capability to transmit a high-speed data stream using multiple spectral-overlapped lower-speed subcarriers, OFDM technology offers superior
advantages of high spectrum efficiency, robustness against inter-carrier and inter-symbol interference, adaptability to server channel conditions, etc.” “IN RECENT years, Internet traffic in the core network has been doubling almost every two years, and predictions indicate that it will continue to exhibit exponential growth due to emerging applications such as high-definition and
real-time video communications” “On the other hand, emerging Internet applications such as Internet Protocol television (IPTV), video on demand, and cloud and grid computing applications demonstrate unpredictable changes in bandwidth and geographical traffic patterns...” “Recently, OFDM (Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing) has been considered a promising candidate for future high-speed optical transmission technology. OFDM is a multicarrier transmission technology that transmits a high-speed data stream by splitting it into multiple parallel low-speed data channels. OFDM first emerged as a leading physicallayer technology in wireless communications, as it provides an effective solution to inter-symbol interference (ISI) caused by the delay spread of wireless channels.” DEFINE: crosstalk = unwanted transfer of signals between communication channels. “OFDM is a special class of the multi-carrier modulation (MCM) scheme that transmits a high-speed data stream by dividing it into a number of orthogonal channels, referred to as subcarriers, each carrying a relatively-low data rate [3]. Compared to WDM systems, where a fixed channel spacing between the wavelengths is usually needed to eliminate crosstalk, OFDM allows the spectrum of individual subcarriers to overlap because of its orthogonality...” A Figura 2a representa: o ponto de pico da subportadora é o ponto inicial(zero) de outra subportadora. “In the time domain, the OFDM signal is a synthesis of multiple subcarriers’ waveforms, and consists of a continuous stream of OFDM symbols that have a regular symbol period, as shown in Fig. 2(b)” “A generic building block diagram of an OFDM system is shown in Fig. 3. At the transmitter end, the input serial data stream is first converted into many parallel data streams through a serial-to-parallel (S/P) converter, each mapped onto corresponding information symbols for the subcarriers within one OFDM symbol.”Descrição da tecnologia OFDM - ***Intervalo de guarda e prefixo ciclico --  “One of the enabling techniques for OFDM is the insertion of a guard interval (GI) and cyclic prefix (CP) [9]. In optics, the phase velocity of an optical pulse depends on its frequency. Different frequency components of an optical pulse travel with different speeds, so the optical pulse is spread out after transmission (i.e., delay spread). Because of this dispersion phenomenon, an OFDM symbol with a large delay spread after a long-distance transmission may cross its symbol boundary, leading to interference with its neighboring OFDM symbol, which is referred to as inter-symbol interference (ISI). Furthermore, because OFDM symbols of different subcarriers are not aligned due to the delay spread, the critical orthogonality condition for the subcarriers will be lost, resulting in an intercarrier interference (ICI) penalty” ***Estimando canal -- Similar to single-carrier modulation, time- and frequencyvarying channels affect the performance of OFDM systems. The effect of the channel on the transmitted signal needs to be estimated to recover the transmitted information. Many techniques have been proposed for estimating and adjusting both timing and frequency variation in OFDM systems [11]. The channel-state information can be estimated using nonblind channel estimation or blind channel estimation. Blind channel estimation uses the intrinsic characteristics of the modulated signal, which is independent of the transmitted data, to estimate the channel state. This scheme requires careful design of the channel-estimation algorithm such that the system converges under all conditions. Compared to blind channel estimation, non-blind channel estimation is more straightforward, but introduces additional overhead. *** Adaptando enlaces – Link adaption is a widely-used technique to increase thev spectral efficiency of broadband wireless data networks and digital subscriber lines. Link adaption exploits the frequencyselective nature of wideband channels. The basic idea is to adjust transmission parameters for each subcarrier, such as modulation and coding levels, according to certain channel conditions, to maximize the transmission data rate or minimize the transmission power...Link adaption is performed on a subcarrier basis, and is normally assisted by control signaling. Channel estimation is adopted to acquire the link condition, and subcarriers can be put on or off based on the link condition to guarantee communication. ***Vantagens e desvantagens de OFDM – O autor cita cinco vantagens no uso de OFDM – 1º OFDM transmits a high-speed data stream by dividing it into multiple low-data-rate subcarriers, thereby increasing the symbol duration and reducing the intersymbol interference. The intrinsic resilience to ISI makes OFDM a good candidate for future high-speed communication systems. 2º OFDM enables smooth upgrading from low-speed to high-speed transmission by simply augmenting the subcarriers and spectrum, without major changes in system design. Therefore, it is highly scalable for migration to the ever-increasing data rate in the future. 3º High spectrum efficiency can be achieved by OFDM with overlapped subcarrier arrangement, so the system capacity can be greatly increased. 4º The link-adaption capability of OFDM provides even higher spectrum efficiency, as distance and channel condition-adaptive modulation (bit per symbol adjustment) is employed. 5º  Energy-efficient operation to reduce power consumption can be implemented by an OFDM system through adaptive modulation and dynamically switching on/off specific subcarriers according to the channel condition and customer bandwidth requirement (which will be described in Section IV-D6)."
